okay I got to see something really
really cool I got to visit some of the
secret Labs inside of the Walt Disney
company called the Disney imagineering
Labs so you know I've seen some people
talk about them a little bit before but
obviously Disney has all these
attractions and theme parks and rides
and somebody has to design and engineer
all that stuff and there's a surprising
amount of tech that goes into it and
some of it is still experimental and
unreleased where no one outside of
Disney well except for me now has gotten
to use them this thing is so cool so
Disney imagineering has a bunch of these
buildings scattered around this
California neighborhood that I got to
visit where they make realistic
animatronic robots as part of their
attractions they literally greeted me at
the door with these little droids the
same ones that are roaming around the
theme parks and these things have a
striking amount of similarities to the
Boston Dynamic spot robot that I got to
play with a few years ago you know that
spot robot was able to navigate any
terrain with an Adaptive gate and it
followed instructions from a custom but
surprisingly easy to learn controller so
that it could navigate around and do
jobs that humans won't and is also super
fun to play with these little droids for
the theme parks are a lot of the same
stuff they are able to adapt to any
terrain they walk around they follow
instructions from a customized steam
deck as the controller which took me
like 60 seconds to learn and they can
navigate around relentlessly all day
interact with guests at a theme park and
being fun to play with it was super fun
and it's also seriously crazy how much
Tech is even inside one of these things
it's literally it's blending all these
animations together from the walking to
the standing and looking around it's
pretty cool but that's not even what I
was there to try I was there
specifically to be the first person
outside of Disney to walk on the hollow
tile so you might have seen some videos
about this the H tile it's this insane
one of one 360° treadmill like a moving
floor basically it's still in an
experimental phase and this is the only
one that exists but it's already got
these gears turning in my head about
future potential applications
particularly in VR and actually one
specific thing that I have reservations
about but I'll get to that in a minute
now I I don't know that anyone's
actually fully explained exactly how
this thing works yet but you can see
that they're basically walking across a
huge number of these tiny 1-in discs
that are spinning on top of their bases
like a bunch of tiny treadmills and then
turning to match the direction that
you're walking so obviously a normal
treadmill is One Direction right just
one flat plane moving forward and
spinning around so you always know
exactly where you're going but let's say
you want to build a treadmill that's
responsive and can go in any direction
well a flat treadmill it would be really
hard right it would have to spin around
quickly to match whatever Direction
you're walking which is just kind of
insanee so instead built into the floor
is a bunch of articulating cones with
discs on top of them with motors inside
to spin those discs okay and then the
key here is the discs are tilted so only
the edge of the disc in the air is the
part that's actually touching what's on
the floor so it's less of a flat
treadmill and more of a bunch of small
blades that are rotating under your feet
so when you walk forward they spin
clockwise to move your foot back to the
middle once it's landed and actually
when you walk backwards they spin
counterclockwise to move your foot back
to the middle so no matter where you go
whatever Direction You Walk no matter
how long or how fast your stride is
it'll always pull you right back to the
middle so I've seen these videos that
Disney's put out of this guy walking on
it but we got to work our way up to that
you know I've never walked on it before
and it's capable of some other things so
let's let's graduate let's get there so
there are three ways to control this
thing there's walk on it obviously but
there's also using a controller like a
PlayStation 5 controller and there's
also just straight up using the force
and just pointing at it with your
hands let's start there so first we put
this Apple box on the hollow tile and
there's a screen up here that shows in
real time all of the inputs and what the
sensors are seeing both on the floor and
around the floor and they've actually
mapped anything that crosses a certain
line in front of me to move whatever
object is on the floor so when I move my
hand in front of that line the program
moves the floor around to match the
movement of the object with the movement
of my hand and this is pretty sick I
assume everyone watching this has seen
Star Wars and realizes how dope it would
be to have something like this in some
sort of Star Wars experience in a theme
park so this is already super cool but
then the first time I actually get to
get on the holot to myself is in a chair
and with a PlayStation controller so I
am going to be in a chair chair where
the chair is on a piece of wood so it's
just flat bottom and then they just
handed me the PlayStation controller and
well see for yourself
so the left joystick is mapped to
control position and the right joystick
controls rotation so you can spin around
and move around freely and actually get
pretty quickly used to this thing and if
you're wondering yes I can steer myself
completely off of the floor it would let
me I was just kind of trying to be
careful to not fling myself off the edge
but it moves so
fast so now after all that now that I've
experienced how it moves now they're
going to let me walk on the hollow tile
all right so I'm going to start with
training mode which is a fraction of the
normal speed but will still get me used
to how this works so I'm
ready training mode is on so
now slowly start to walk I can feel them
kind of wiggling a little bit
but not really moving too quickly yet so
this is normal oh okay now they're
starting to move and my feet are
starting to
move with the tiles there we
go so as I slowly walk a little bit
faster a little bit more quickly a
little longer
strides I'm getting more used to the
feeling of the the tiles so they
designed this to be about a 2minute
process as these tiny s slowly speed up
their responsiveness to my movements and
it was slowly turned up more and more
basically until it was at 100% real time
it's moving pretty close to full speed
now feels
like and there's obviously a learning
curve
but I feel like I'm good enough at it
that I can kind of walk around and not
think too hard it's good and then
there's all the data behind me in real
time
showing my feet my
legs so walking on this I noticed a
couple things first of all as you've
heard through this video it's pretty
loud like this is going to be something
they definitely are going to want to
work on especially if it's something
that'll be a part of a theme park
someday or maybe even in someone's home
but also I found it fascinating you're
never actually quite walking in a
perfectly straight line like it can feel
pretty close if your foot happens to
line up along a row of discs that are
all aligned in a way from the center but
other times you're just kind of Gliding
Over the Top of a bunch of these ridges
and you're not moving in a perfectly
straight line I imagine a future version
of this looks like a whole bunch of much
smaller and more numerous discs that are
just as powerful as they are which is
clearly an engineering challenge or an
imagineering challenge so yeah this
takes some getting used to I know that
because I got to hang out with the
inventor of the hollow tile Lanny Smoot
he's been at Disney for more than 20
years he's got more than 70 patents
including the way the bb8 rolls around
the park the real life lightsabers just
to name a few he's kind of a legend and
yeah this guy's incredible on it he was
showing me you can have two people on it
at once they were playing a multiplayer
racing game like controlling a bb-8
around a course by jogging around and it
seemed to work pretty well aside from
being pretty small obviously this would
work better if they had more of these
floor tiles but then what I found the
most crazy is using this floor with a VR
headset on so this is what you would
expect it to be for for VR right and
there's been some other 360 degree
treadmill type of videos I've seen other
types of inventions used for VR and they
work but the one thing that's hard about
these and it's hard to explain through
video but the difference between what
your eyes see and what your body and
brain feel that disagreement so meaning
like this has always been true if you
look down at your phone a lot in a
moving car right your eyes are seeing
something still they see your body
sitting still but then your brain and
your inner ear feels you moving around
moving forward and so the disagreement
between what your eyes see and what your
brain feel that's what can give you
motion sickness that's what feels bad
and so if you think about it it's the
same thing with this moving treadmill in
VR you put the headset on and you start
walking and your eyes see that you are
walking down a moving hallway you're
moving forward but your brain because
you're walking in place doesn't feel
that it's supposed to be moving forward
so again there's a disagreement there so
with the hollow tile I got to try
putting on an Apple Vision Pro and
actually walking around a 3D constructed
environment you can't see it but I'm in
like a hollow deck and Star Trek or
something and I've got a harness on
because it turns out this is really hard
my eyes see the movement and my legs are
trying to walk forward and my feet are
sliding around but my brain thinks I'm
not supposed to be moving forward so
it's confusing it's hard to just trust
it and walk plus there's the extra layer
of sometimes it moves you backwards a
little bit to the center so I was taking
all these baby steps meanwhile though
watch Lanny do it and he's just
incredible at it like he had the headset
on he was walking around confidently
through space exploring a virtual world
pretty sure it's like a virtual Disney
theme park type of thing but that's the
type of thing that feels the most like
the future just free form exploring some
huge space walking around in the
comforter of your own home maybe and
that would be amazing and if this thing
can continue to be developed maybe just
maybe it can get us closer to that
reality someday either way that is
definitely dope Tech I'm glad I got to
see the first version of this and I'm
very curious and excited to see future
versions Disney please invite me back I
want to see what the future of this
actually looks like okay that's it
thanks for watching catch you in the
next one peace
p